Occasionally, it may be useful to connect to VM using a file transfer client such as WinSCP. This could be to download or upload a large number of files, for example. WinSCP is a client that sits on your laptop, and facilitates the upload of folders and files by creating a direct mapping from your laptop to the Linux VM (data science environment).

Download **Winscp** tool for windows [https://winscp.net/eng/download.php](https://winscp.net/eng/download.php)

[[/images/35.png]]

Now let&#39;s start mapping your laptop&#39;s drive with your Linux VM, so you can download and upload files easily. In your Azure Portal, reset your password. This will make the mapping from your laptop to the Linux VM easier and we will save a few steps. Set your password and confirm it as below:

- Note: Your password should be in a safe format to be accepted by Azure: E.g.: _P@assword03\*_

[[/images/36.png]]

[[/images/37.png]]

Now you are going to setup the mapping from your local drive to the Linux VM directory by using Winscp tool. Open **Winscp** tool you will be directed to the first &#39;login menu&#39; as below. Click in &quot;Login&quot;. The left side of the window is your local drive (laptop). On the right side you will connect to your linux VM (CubeInaBox-CPUxxGb).

[[/images/38.png]]

Type the following information related to your Linux VM (CubeInaBox):

* **Hostname:** <your VM&#39;s CubeInaBox public IP>

* **User Name:** _ubuntu_

* **Password:** <the password you chose in previous steps>

[[/images/39.png]]

[[/images/40.png]]

The mapping drive from your local machine to your Linux directory is done. You can see your mapping from your laptop (left side) to your Linux VM (right side)

[[/images/41.png]]

Type the ODC application path (&#39; **/opt/odc/notebooks&#39;** ) as below:

[[/images/42.png]]

Move files across as required.

[[/images/43.png]]
