When using Azure, you may have credits or be using a credit card, either way
you're going to want to manage your costs!

There are two main factors impacting cost:

1. The size of the VM, i.e. number of CPUs/cores and amount of RAM
2. How long the VM is turned on for

Note that there is no requirement to use Azure, it is possible to [use the
Open Data Cube tools on your local machine](./1b.-Getting-started:-Local-Environment).

When provisioning your _Cube_ your are given a choice of what size VM to use:

| Option   | VM Type            | vCPUs | RAM | GPU | $/hr       | $/day | $/mon  | $/8h     |
|----------|--------------------|-------|-----|-----|------------|-------|--------|----------|
| CPU-16GB | Standard_D4s_v3    | 4     | 16  | No  | 0.32952    | 7.91  | 240.55 | 2.63616  |
| GPU-56GB | Standard_NC6_Promo | 6     | 56  | Yes | 0.937759   | 22.51 | 684.56 | 7.502072 |

_Prices are in AUD. Listing is subject to change. For more information on
prices visit the [Azure Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-au/pricing/calculator/)._

If you only have $100 of credit, you'll want to use your VM time responsibly, which means:

---

:warning: **Shut down the VM to save credits when not in use!** :warning:

---

If you exhaust your credits you will receive the following message via email.

[[/images/26.png]]



## Shut Down Your VM

You should shut down your VM when you're not using it to save credits. You will still pay a small amount for the disk space, however the bulk of the cost associated with running the VM will be saved.

To shut down your VM:

1. Log in to your [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. Navigate to your _Cube_ VM
3. Click the **Stop** button at the top on the **Overview** page.

[[/images/27.png]]


## Auto shutdown

We strongly recommend you [implement auto shutdown](./2c.-Scheduling-auto-shutdown:-Azure) as soon as you have finished your deployment. This allows you to set a time that the VM will switch off each day in case you forget to do so after you've finished work. Just remember to disable it temporarily if you're running a big piece of analysis overnight.


## Delete Your Deployment

Once the challenge is over and you have submitted your entry, you may want to
[delete your deployment](./3c.-Deleting-your-data-science-environment:-Azure). Especially if you are using a credit card and have opted for pay-as-you-go (you will still be charged for the disk space even if the VM is switched off).
