Welcome to the FAQ. Here you'll find solutions to common problems with
deploying and using your data science environment.

If you don't find what you're looking for here, please [contact
us](mailto:eydatasciencechallenge@au.ey.com) and provide as much detail as
possible for your problem.

We'll update this page with more solutions as we discover them, so be sure to
check back!

***

### Access the VM Terminal

In some cases it is useful to connect to the command line shell of a VM in
order to diagnose an issue.

If Jupyter is working on your VM, navigate to the Jupyter file tree view, click
the "New" drop down item at the top left of the file list table and select
Terminal. This will open a terminal to the VM in a new browser window.

If you [Cannot Access Jupyter](#cannot-access-jupyter), you can connect to the
VM command shell using an SSH client:

When you deployed your VM, you generated an SSH key pair which you will now
need.

Locate your SSH key; if you used the default location on creation, you should
find it at either `C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_rsa` (for Windows) or
`~/.ssh/id_rsa` for MacOS/Linux.

Open a terminal; On Windows, use the start menu to launch either Command Prompt
or PowerShell, on MacOS launch Terminal.app, on Linux you should know what
you're doing.

From the terminal, connect by running `ssh -i /path/to/key ubuntu@VM_IP`;
replacing `/path/to/key` with the actual key path (if you are using the
default, you can omit `-i /path/to/key`) and replacing `VM_IP` with the IP of
your VM found in the Azure console. The `ubuntu` username is set on the VM and
doesn't change.

***

### Check the Install Log

If your VM did not work when deploying, something may have gone wrong during
installation of the software. Sometimes this can happen due to, for example,
temporary network issues.

First you'll need to [access the VM terminal](#access-the-vm-terminal) using
SSH.

Once connected you can view the log by running this command:

```
cat /var/log/install-cube.log
```

This will print the contents of the installation log to the terminal. If there
was a problem during installation, there'll likely be some clue in the last few
lines of this file.

In some cases our support team may request the installation log to help
diagnose issues with your VM.

To download the log file from the VM to your local machine open another terminal window (as described above, e.g. PowerShell), and run this command:


```
scp ubuntu@VM_IP:/var/log/install-cube.log ~/Downloads
```

Note that `~/Downloads/` can be changed to whatever path you want to download
the file to. Use just `.` for the current folder (where the `scp` command is
being executed from). On Windows you may need to use `%USERPROFILE%` in place
of `~`.

You can now email the install-cube.log file to the support team!

***

### Deployment fails

If your deployment fails with `"code":"DeploymentFailed"` and
`"code":"ConflictingUserInput"`, have a closer look at the entire error
message. Should the error message contain the following: 

    Disk DatadiskCubeInABox already exists in resource group EY-DATACHALLENGE.

then an old disk from a previous deployment is left over and Azure refuses to
overwrite it. Simply delete this disk first in the Azure Portal (search for
`Disk` and delete the one called `DatadiskCubeInABox`) and try again to deploy
a new environment.

***

### Cannot Access Jupyter

If your VM has deployed successfully but you cannot access Jupyter at the VM IP
address, please check the following:

1. **Do not use a fully numerical password for Jupyter**:  
   When choosing your **Secret Password** during the Azure deployment, make 
   sure to use a password that has letters and numbers. Number-only passwords 
   are known to cause an error in Jupyter loading. Also avoid special 
   characters such as <kbd>;</kbd>, <kbd>$</kbd>, <kbd>\\</kbd>, <kbd>(</kbd>, 
   <kbd>)</kbd>, <kbd>*</kbd>, <kbd>{</kbd>, <kbd>}</kbd>. If you have already
   deployed, you can check your password in the `/opt/odc/docker-compose.yml` 
   file on your VM at the `services.jupyter.command` value. Modify this file 
   to change it, then run `sudo docker-compose up -d` to recreate the
   container.

1. **Make sure the VM is running**:  
   Confirm that the VM is running via the Azure Portal and check that the
   status of your `CubeInABox` VM is `running`. If it is not, select the VM and
   hit the `Start` button. Remember; stopping your VM when not in use is a good
   way to keep costs down. See [Cost
   Management](./3a.-Cost-Management:-Azure.md) for more information.

2. **Check that Jupyter is running**:  
   To check that Jupyter is running on the VM, you'll need to [access the VM
   terminal](#access-the-vm-terminal) using SSH.

   Once connected, run `cd /opt/odc` to navigate to the Open Data Cube
   installation directory, then run `sudo docker-compose ps`. This command will
   print the status of Jupyter (and its database); under "State" we hope to see
   "Up". If state is not "Up", run `sudo docker-compose -d up`. After a couple of
   minutes Jupyter should be ready.

   If an error is printed when running the above commands, then something
   likely went wrong with the installation. You can either manually re-run the
   installation (read on) or delete and re-create the VM.

3. **Manually install Open Data Cube**:  
   To run the installation first download the script with this command:

   ```sh
   cd # Navigate back to your home directory
   curl -o install-cube.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EY-Data-Science-Program/2021-Better-Working-World-Data-Challenge/main/install-cube.sh
   ```

   Then run the installation script (replace `MYPASSWORD` with the password you
   want to use to log in to Jupyter):

   ```
   chmod +x install-cube.sh # Make the file executable
   sudo ./install-cube.sh MYPASSWORD
   ```

   Installation may take a while, so just sit back and wait!

   If anything else goes wrong please [contact
   us](mailto:eydatasciencechallenge@au.ey.com).
